import { Toggle } from '../src';
import { Button } from '../../button/src';

# Toggle

The toggle component allows you to render checkboxes or radio buttons, all in
one component. All you have to do is specify the Toggle `type` and let the
component handle the rest. Toggle is built to handle both single and multiple
options.

**You must keep track of state yourself**. The state has to be handled
differently depending on whether you want to use single or multiple options. See
examples below.

## Import

```js
import { Toggle } from '@fabric-ds/react';
```

## Checkbox with single option

When you only want a single option, please use the `label` property over passing
a single option to the `options` property. This results in the `onChange`
callback function returning a single boolean value indicating the current state
of the toggle.

```jsx example
function Example() {
  const [checked, setChecked] = React.useState(false);

  return (
    <>
      <p className="h4">{checked.toString()}</p>
      <Toggle
        type="checkbox"
        label="Apple"
        defaultChecked={checked}
        onChange={(checked) => setChecked(checked)}
      />
    </>
  );
}
```

**Note** the `defaultChecked` property, which is only used to set the default
value on component mount (uncontrolled). **It does not** actively pass down the
state of the checkbox. Feel free to omit this property if you are not setting
the default value of the checkbox or use the `checked` property (controlled) to
actively pass down state.

**Note** the `onChange` property returning a boolean value. This is because
we're working with a single option. When using the `options` property, as seen
in examples below, the option which has been selected is returned on the
callback and we must handle this state ourselves.

## Checkbox with multiple options

Let's have a look at using the Toggle with multiple options. As mentioned above,
using the `options` property will change the returning value of the `onChange`
callback. It will now return the option which was selected.

```jsx example
function Example() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([
    { label: 'Microsoft', value: 'microsoft' },
  ]);

  const handleSelect = (entry) => {
    if (selected.some((e) => e.value === entry.value)) {
      return setSelected(selected.filter((s) => s.value !== entry.value));
    }

    return setSelected([...selected, entry]);
  };

  return (
    <>
      <p className="h4">{JSON.stringify(selected)}</p>
      <Toggle
        type="checkbox"
        title="Companies"
        defaultSelected={selected}
        options={[
          { label: 'Apple', value: 'apple' },
          { label: 'Microsoft', value: 'microsoft' },
        ]}
        onChange={handleSelect}
      />
    </>
  );
}
```

**Note** the `defaultSelected` property (uncontrolled). Similar to the single
option `checked` property, this will render the passed options as checked by
default when the component mounts. If you wish to actively pass the state down
use the `selected` property instead (controlled).

**Note** the `title` property. This gives you the option to label the options,
but is not required.

## Checkbox with invisible label

You can hide the label by passing a `noVisibleLabel` prop to `Toggle` component.

```jsx example
function Example() {
  const [checked, setChecked] = React.useState('No');
  const answer = checked ? 'Yes' : 'No';

  return (
    <>
      <p className="h4">Is checkbox selected? {answer}</p>
      <Toggle
        type="checkbox"
        label={answer}
        defaultChecked={checked}
        onChange={(checked) => setChecked(checked)}
        noVisibleLabel
      />
    </>
  );
}
```

## Checkbox with indeterminate state

Sometimes we need to indicate that the state of a single checkbox is
indeterminate, or "partially checked". The checkbox will appear with a small
dash instead of a tick to indicate that the option is not exactly checked or
unchecked.

```jsx example
function Example() {
  const [selectAllChecked, setSelectAllChecked] = React.useState(false);
  const [selectedOptions, setSelectedOptions] = React.useState([
    { label: 'Apple pie', value: 'apple pie' },
    { label: 'Pavlova', value: 'pavlova' },
  ]);

  const options = [
    { label: 'Apple pie', value: 'apple pie' },
    { label: 'Carrot cake', value: 'carrot cake' },
    { label: 'Pavlova', value: 'pavlova' },
  ];

  const handleSelectAll = (checked) => {
    if (checked === false) {
      setSelectedOptions([]);
    } else {
      setSelectedOptions(options);
    }
    setSelectAllChecked(checked);
  };

  const handleSelect = (selected) => {
    let updatedSelected = selectedOptions;

    if (selectedOptions.some((option) => option.value === selected.value)) {
      updatedSelected = selectedOptions.filter(
        (option) => option.value !== selected.value,
      );
    } else {
      updatedSelected = [...selectedOptions, selected];
    }

    if (selectedOptions.length === options.length) setSelectAllChecked(false);
    if (updatedSelected.length === options.length) setSelectAllChecked(true);

    setSelectedOptions(updatedSelected);
  };

  return (
    <>
      <Toggle
        onChange={handleSelectAll}
        checked={selectAllChecked}
        type="checkbox"
        label="Select all desserts"
        indeterminate={
          selectedOptions.length > 0 &&
          selectedOptions.length !== options.length
        }
      />
      <Toggle
        title="Favourite desserts"
        type="checkbox"
        selected={selectedOptions}
        options={options}
        onChange={handleSelect}
      />
    </>
  );
}
```

## Toggle with multiple options

We've already had a look at checkboxes, but Toggle can also render radio options
and buttons.

### Radio

```jsx example
function Example() {
  const options = [
    { label: 'Red', value: 'red' },
    { label: 'Blue', value: 'blue' },
    { label: 'Green', value: 'green' },
  ];

  return (
    <Toggle
      type="radio"
      title="Favorite color"
      helpText="Choose your absolute favorite color"
      options={options}
      onChange={(selected) => console.log(selected)}
    />
  );
}
```

**Note** the `helpText` property. This gives you the option to further explain
the purpose of the toggle and the action to take.

### Radio buttons

```jsx example
function Example() {
  const options = [
    { label: 'Oslo', value: 1 },
    { label: 'LÃ¸renskog', value: 2 },
    { label: 'Hamar', value: 3 },
  ];

  const [equalWidth, setEqualWidth] = React.useState(false);

  return (
    <>
      <Button
        className="mb-8"
        onClick={() => setEqualWidth(!equalWidth)}
        primary={equalWidth}
        negative={!equalWidth}
        small
      >
        Equal width: {equalWidth.toString()}
      </Button>
      <div>
        <Toggle
          type="radio-button"
          options={options}
          equalWidth={equalWidth}
          onChange={(e) => console.log(e)}
        />
      </div>
    </>
  );
}
```

Radio buttons have the special property `equalWidth`, which will render each
option with equal width.

## Validation

Validation is as easy as passing the property `invalid` with a `helpText` to
further explain the error. `helpText` can also be used as an assistance label
before an error occurs as long as `invalid` is set to false.

```jsx example
function Example() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([
    { label: 'Blue', value: 'blue' },
  ]);

  return (
    <Toggle
      type="checkbox"
      title="Favorite colors"
      helpText="Blue surely isn't amongst your favorites?"
      invalid
      selected={selected}
      options={[
        { label: 'Red', value: 'red' },
        { label: 'Blue', value: 'blue' },
        { label: 'Green', value: 'green' },
      ]}
    />
  );
}
```

In the next example, we'll take a closer look at one way to conditionally render
error and help messages. You should probably take this a step further and
implement your own error handler, but for the sake of the demo we've kept it
quite simple.

```jsx example
function Example() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([
    { label: 'Blue', value: 'blue' },
  ]);

  const handleSelect = (entry) => {
    if (selected.some((e) => e.value === entry.value)) {
      return setSelected(selected.filter((s) => s.value !== entry.value));
    }

    return setSelected([...selected, entry]);
  };

  return (
    <Toggle
      type="checkbox"
      title="Favorite colors"
      helpText={
        selected.some((e) => e.value === 'blue')
          ? "Blue surely isn't amongst your favorites?"
          : 'Choose your favorite colors'
      }
      invalid={!!selected.some((e) => e.value === 'blue')}
      selected={selected}
      onChange={handleSelect}
      options={[
        { label: 'Red', value: 'red' },
        { label: 'Blue', value: 'blue' },
        { label: 'Green', value: 'green' },
      ]}
    />
  );
}
```

# Toggle props

```props packages/toggle/src/component.tsx

```

```ts
type ToggleEntry = {
  label: string;
  value: unknown;
};
```
